[Jan 28] MS Defender for Endpoint third-party response integration (#6478)
elastic/security-docs: docs/management/admin/response-actions-config.asciidoc

====

.**Set up Microsoft Defender for Endpoint response actions**
[%collapsible]
====
// NOTE TO CONTRIBUTORS: These sections have very similar content. If you change anything 
// in this section, apply the change to the other sections, too.

. **Create API access information in Microsoft Azure.** You should create two new applications in your Azure domain and grant them the following minimum API permissions:
+
--
- For use with the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Fleet integration policy: Permission to read alert data (`Windows Defender ATP: Alert.Read.All`).
- For use with the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector: Permission to read machine information as well as isolate and release a machine (`Windows Defender ATP: Machine.Isolate and Machine.Read.All`).
--
+
Refer to the {integrations-docs}/microsoft_defender_endpoint[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration documentation] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-endpoint/api/exposed-apis-create-app-webapp[Microsoft's documentation] for details.
+
After the applications are created, you should have the following 3 pieces of information available for each one:
+
--
- Client ID
- Client secret
- Tenant ID
--

> . **Install the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration and {agent}.** Elastic's {integrations-docs}/microsoft_defender_endpoint[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration] collects and ingests logs into {elastic-sec}.

Reviewer: I'm thinking we should also mention here that a user could also setup the "Microsoft M365 Defender" integration as an alternative (or additional) source for data... We tested this and it seems to work with bi-directional response actions. 

I don't think we should have an entire bullet section for it - perhaps just a callout or "note" to indicate we have support for it.

cc/ @raqueltabuyo , @caitlinbetz

This gives you visibility into CrowdStrike without needing to leave {elastic-sec}. You can perform supported endpoint response actions directly from alerts that a rule creates, by using the **Take action** menu in the alert details flyout.
====

.**Set up Microsoft Defender for Endpoint response actions**
[%collapsible]
====
// NOTE TO CONTRIBUTORS: These sections have very similar content. If you change anything 
// in this section, apply the change to the other sections, too.

> . **Create API access information in Microsoft Azure.** You should create two new applications in your Azure domain and grant them the following minimum API permissions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. **Create API access information in Microsoft Azure.** Create two new applications in your Azure domain and grant them the following minimum API permissions:
```

+
--

> - For use with the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Fleet integration policy: Permission to read alert data (`Windows Defender ATP: Alert.Read.All`).

Reviewer 2: This edit and the following one reflect the list structure used in step 1 of the "Set up SentinelOne response actions" section. 

```suggestion
- Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Fleet integration policy: Permission to read alert data (`Windows Defender ATP: Alert.Read.All`).
```

> - For use with the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector: Permission to read machine information as well as isolate and release a machine (`Windows Defender ATP: Machine.Isolate and Machine.Read.All`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector: Permission to read machine information as well as isolate and release a machine (`Windows Defender ATP: Machine.Isolate and Machine.Read.All`).
```

--
+

> Refer to the {integrations-docs}/microsoft_defender_endpoint[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration documentation] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-endpoint/api/exposed-apis-create-app-webapp[Microsoft's documentation] for details.

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to explain what users will find if they visit these pages. For example, at the end of step 1 in the "Set up SentinelOne response actions" section, there's this line, which tells users what they can expect to find if they visit the referenced page:

> Refer to the [SentinelOne integration docs](https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/sentinel_one) or SentinelOne’s docs for details on generating API tokens.

+

> After the applications are created, you should have the following 3 pieces of information available for each one:

Reviewer 3: I think per our style guide rules, numerals 1-9 should be written out. 
```suggestion
After the applications are created, you should have the following three pieces of information available for each one:
```

+

> --

Reviewer 2: Do the three items in this list need descriptions?

- Client ID
- Client secret
- Tenant ID
--

. **Install the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration and {agent}.** Elastic's {integrations-docs}/microsoft_defender_endpoint[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration] collects and ingests logs into {elastic-sec}.
+
NOTE: You can also set up the {integrations-docs}/m365_defender[Microsoft M365 Defender integration] as an alternative or additional source of data.
+
.. Find **Integrations** in the navigation menu or use the {kibana-ref}/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search[global search field], search for and select **Microsoft Defender for Endpoint**, then select **Add Microsoft Defender for Endpoint**.

> .. Configure the integration with an **Integration name** and optional **Description**.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit more direct.

```suggestion
.. Enter an **Integration name*. Entering a **Description** is optional.
```

.. Ensure that **Microsoft Defender for Endpoint logs** is selected, and enter the required values for **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **Tenant ID**.
.. Scroll down and enter a name for the agent policy in **New agent policy name**. If other agent policies already exist, you can click the **Existing hosts** tab and select an existing policy instead. For more details on {agent} configuration settings, refer to {fleet-guide}/agent-policy.html[{agent} policies].
.. Click **Save and continue**.

> .. Select **Add {agent} to your hosts** and continue with the <<enroll-agent,{agent} installation steps>> to install {agent} on a resource in your network (such as a server or VM). {agent} will act as a bridge collecting data from Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and sending it back to {elastic-sec}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Select **Add {agent} to your hosts** and continue with the <<enroll-agent,{agent} installation steps>> to install {agent} on a resource in your network (such as a server or VM). {agent} will act as a bridge, collecting data from Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and sending it back to {elastic-sec}.
```

. **Create a Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector.** Elastic's Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector enables {elastic-sec} to perform actions on Microsoft Defender–enrolled hosts.
+
IMPORTANT: Do not create more than one Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector.
+
.. Find **Connectors** in the navigation menu or use the {kibana-ref}/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search[global search field], then select **Create connector**.
.. Select the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector.
.. Enter the configuration information:
   - **Connector name**: A name to identify the connector.
   - **Application client ID**: The client ID created in step 1.
   - **Tenant ID**: The tenant ID created in step 1.
   - **Client secret value**: The client secret created in step 1.
.. (Optional) If necessary, adjust the default values populated for the other configuration parameters.
.. Click **Save**.

. **Create and enable detection rules to generate {elastic-sec} alerts.** Create <<rules-ui-create,detection rules>> to generate {elastic-sec} alerts based on Microsoft Defender for Endpoint events and data.
+

> This gives you visibility into Microsoft Defender hosts without needing to leave {elastic-sec}. You can perform supported endpoint response actions directly from alerts that a rule creates, by using the **Take action** menu in the alert details flyout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This gives you visibility into Microsoft Defender hosts without needing to leave {elastic-sec}. You can perform supported endpoint response actions directly from alerts that a rule creates by using the **Take action** menu in the alert details flyout.
```
